[Music]
So, what's the best investing advice
you've ever gotten? Start now. Buy low,
sell high. Take 10% of every check and
invest it. Where do you look for for
investing advice? Online. Just look on
YouTube. Just Google and hope for the
best if I'm honest. Have you ever
invested before? I invest a lot into my
cat.
What's the best investment you ever
made? Dogecoin. Really? Like, yeah. I
didn't know it was going to blow up the
way it did. What's the worst investment?
Probably like an NFT. Do you find that
it's hard to save? I do, especially in
this economy. Do you think most people
know enough about investing?
Um, I wouldn't say this generation. No.
No, not really. Should they? Yes. I
mean, it's basically your future. Thank
you.
[Music]
Today, I'm a financial reporter with a
masters in quantitative finance. But in
my 20s, I was living off my credit card
and I wasn't thinking about investing.
Many in the current generation are not
like that. They're pumping stocks,
trading crypto, betting in prediction
markets, and getting a lot of
unregulated advice online. Pay attention
cuz I'm going to tell you guys a hack to
make easy money in crypto. This guy just
turned $527 into over $100,000. And I
think I may have just found the next big
memecoin to do something similar. I see
a stock going up and I buy it and I just
watch it until it stops going up and
then I sell it and I do that over and
over and it pays for our whole
lifestyle.
Many people don't have extra cash to
invest. Almost half the country doesn't
have enough savings to last 3 months,
but the barriers to trading are lower
than ever before. And with the stock
market still near record highs, is this
the opportunity for generational wealth
or a siren call for suckers?
[Music]
What do you think the question is that
you get the most around investing these
days? How to get rich quick? What do you
tell people who ask you how to get rich
quick? I mean, I make a little joke. I'm
like, if I knew, I wouldn't be here. I'd
be doing something else. What Kyla
Scanland is doing goes back to the
pandemic. I graduated in 2019, and so
then the pandemic hit. She's a data nerd
with an artistic side and a deep
understanding of the economy. And I had
been trading options all throughout high
school. All right. So, this is She also
has a knack for going viral. Recession,
yield curve, the flashing red bell,
economics, is it even real? Will it hit
100K again? Probably, right? Like, who
knows what'll happen in the next couple
years? I'll be I'll be talking about it.
It wasn't a recession, it was a vibe
session. A Tik Tok star has been putting
a name to what a lot of Americans are
feeling. The vibe session. It's just
this idea, as you said, a disconnect
between how people feel and what the
economic data is saying. Great.
Lately, she's had her hands full
fighting misinformation, explaining the
price of eggs, and making little clay
creatures as an antidote to the mania of
markets. With markets and the economy,
they can feel really intangible.
Stressful. Yeah, very much so. And so,
it's nice to like have physical things
to manipulate. The same reason I like to
make pie. Really? Yeah. It calms me down
at the end of a hectic market day. You
and I are sitting in a crazy market day
right now. I think the market is
crashing as we're doing this. I just
counted on X and Instagram. You had
almost a half million people following
you, if more on YouTube, too. I think
700,000 across everything, which is
nice. Did you think that it would ever
get that big? No. Did you think it was
going to be your career? No. I remember
telling my parents that I was leaving
Capital Group, which was like this
really stable job. I was like, I think
I'm going to go and try this thing where
I do investment education. and they were
like, "What are you talking about?"
Cutting cost is Why do you think it
works so well? Why do you think that
people latched on to what you were
telling people on the internet? Rolling
them back. I really try to be really
honest with people and I try to be as
unbiased and objective as possible. I
try not to be alarmist. I try to be
straightforward. I try to help them
understand the world around them so they
can make better decisions. I'm on there
every day and I just set my phone up and
kind of talk into it. like it's very
personal and it's not like very
polished. Some might call it janky in
terms of my editing. People might
appreciate that like direct contact. Do
you think it's cuz people are kind of
craving for authentic advice on money?
Yeah, I think so. I try my best to
provide them that answer questions cuz
it is really hard out there. There isn't
good resources or you know there are
good resources and it's just not
reaching people. It's overwhelming.
super overwhelming and I do my best to
just distill down everything that's
happening through the newsletter and and
the short form videos and the long form
videos. Why do you think Gen Z looks
mostly to their investing advice on the
internet? Most of them invest via apps.
They grow up learning from YouTube. It's
very natural just to keep on relying on
social media for those sorts of things.
There's still a lot of financial
adviserss who are playing a big role in
Jenz's lives, but if you're not able to,
you know, afford that or if it feels a
little out of reach, like the internet's
a great place to go. Maybe it was the
anxiety. Maybe it was the stimulus
checks. For whatever reason, amateur
trading exploded during the pandemic,
and the number of Americans who directly
own stocks jumped from 15% to 21% in
just 3 years, the largest increase on
record. The subreddit Wall Street Bets
rallied the online masses to boost
GameStop shares. Users bought into meme
coins and NFTts while trading
predictions about the news on Poly
Market and betting on sports with
FanDuel. All of a sudden, it seemed like
everyone was playing some kind of
market, but not in a slow and steady
Warren Buffett kind of way. More like a
cynical quest for pain and profit.
During a surreal historic moment
around the pandemic, so many people
started to trade. You were seeing crazy
things with GameStop and AMC, and you
were able to read about all that stuff
on sites like Wall Street Bets on on
Reddit. I feel like so many people saw
so many get-richqu stories and how many
of those are really out there. People
lie too. Like it's a huge headache on
social media and it's like half of my
battle is to sort of talk to the fact
that a lot of people are lying about the
returns and they're lying about how much
money they've made. There's like a pump
and dump kind of community happening
where people will push up the price of a
coin and then get a bunch of people to
buy it and then sell out on the top and
leave these other people holding the
bag. then I totally get where people are
coming from. And I think like with the
advent of meme coins and sports betting,
you're just faced with this giant
pressure cooker all of the time to make
a bunch of money and it almost feels
ridiculous if you don't participate in
Argentina's memecoin thing that
happened. It's like, well, you know, you
just missed out on generational wealth.
I mean, by and large, do you make more
money by trading in and out of markets
or just by, you know, by finding
long-term investments and holding them
like Warren Buffett did? Yeah, I think
most people are better off just buying
and holding. Why do you think it's
important for people to invest?
Historically, the way that we've taught
people to build wealth is through buying
a house. And that's really just not
accessible, number one, to a large
portion of young people right now. I
think a lot of people don't realize in
our parents' generation, people bought a
house and the price went up over so many
years and they were able to build a lot
of their wealth that way. Boomers are
like basically 20% of the population and
they own 38% of homes nationwide. You
made this amazing point once that I
heard about how if you're not inheriting
wealth, then you have a problem. I mean
there's only a certain subset of society
right now that is getting wealth from
their parents' generation. I think
basically the top 5% inheriting from the
top 5% and so it's a very concentrated
amount of wealth that's going toward a
very concentrated segment of the
population but it's going to be a
massive amount of wealth. That's why
investing is important uh because
generational wealth has to start
somewhere. I guess
some of the greatest investors in the
world when they think about investing
they think about investing through the
long term. They think about the idea of
compounding which is putting money in
the market or money into savings and
letting it grow over time. But here's
the problem. A lot of Gen Z doesn't want
to do that. They want to trade in the
markets. They look to financial
influencers who may have gotten rich
quick. But the reality is most people
don't get rich quick. They let money
grow over time.
Generational wealth has to start
somewhere. But if you can't buy a house,
and you can't trust what you see online,
where do you start? It's so good to see
you. How are you? Good to see you.
Melody Hobson has worked at one place
her whole life, Ariel Investments, where
she is now co-CEO.
The firm focuses on stock picking,
staking individual companies for the
long term, doing deep research and
hunting down opportunities that others
have overlooked. In other words, the
opposite of social mediadriven trading.
Wait, so you do a black coffee every
morning? I do pipe place or if I'm
treating myself, I have a oat milk
cappuccino. Okay. What are we doing
today? So today I think I'll have an
oatmeal cappuccino. Enjoying you. So,
I'm going to do your order today. Hobson
has been on many boards, including JP
Morgan, Estee Lauder, and most famously
Starbucks, where she served for nearly
20 years. Have you been busy? A little
bit busy, but it's fine. Yeah. You have
the new drinks. Yes, we have the
lavender and the chai.
Hobson is passionate about financial
literacy, the knowledge of how to
budget, save, and manage money, which
isn't always taught in schools. Only 28
states have adopted policies requiring a
high school course on financial literacy
to graduate. Hobson even wrote a
children's book, Priceless Facts About
Money, which the state of Maine
purchased for every fourth grader. How
do you give someone an elevator pitch on
who you are? A squirrel trying to get a
nut.
Elaborate. That is what I tell my
husband. I'm just a squirrel trying to
get a nut. And then whenever I say that,
he says, "But you have a nut." Meaning
him. Yeah.
You didn't grow up with a lot, right?
You've talked a lot about how when you
were growing up, your family struggled
to pay the bills. You faced evictions.
Can you talk to us about your childhood
a little bit, what role it played in
maybe who you are today? It's
everything. I mean, it's it's who I am.
I said very recently on a podcast with
Oprah that my childhood trauma became my
purpose. So, I grew up with a single mom
and there was just a shortage at all
times. So, we would get evicted, our
phone would get disconnected. There was
a time we were living in an abandoned
building. I mean, I could go on and on
and on. Really traumatic when you're a
child. How do you think that your
upbringing made you think about
financial literacy? I had this mom that
was remarkable in some ways and a great
lesson in what not to do in others. She
put money front and center for me mostly
in revealing to me and showing me all
the issues. It was a lot to take in. As
a child, I knew our light bill, our
phone bill, our rent. Whenever I have
early memories, I've had the early
memories of scarcity and issues with
money. She always made me pay for things
in any store, any restaurant, starting
when I was a little kid, put the money
on the table, count the change,
calculate the tip, whatever it was. It
was a a very big part of my life. She'd
go to the bank and she'd say, "Check the
account number against the receipt and
make sure it went into the correct
account." I remember that like it was
yesterday. But at the same time, she
then would make these decisions like buy
Easter dresses instead of paying the
light bill. And that was something that
I found to be very arresting and
destabilizing. And so as a result of
that, I had these conflicting lessons
that made me desperate to understand
money. So my financial literacy was not
taught to be my by mother. My literacy I
learned and I learned by deciding that I
wanted to learn. I was desperate to
understand money. It was not about how
much I would have. It was just if I
understood how this all worked, I could
make better decisions and perhaps be
more um secure. And as a result of that,
I poured myself into that study of money
from when I started working at Ariel.
Ariel was founded by John Rogers in
1983.
He initially raised $500,000
and launched the first blackowned mutual
fund in the country. He recruited Hobson
right out of college. John Rogers, he's
my family now. So, he started as my
boss. I was a pipsqueak. I was an
intern. Squirrel chasing a nut. Always
been chasing the same nut. And that's
another nut.
But John fundamentally
helped mold me as a person in business
from both the minutia to the big
picture. There are so many things I
learned from John. They are in my DNA of
how I behave and how I work and how I do
things. He would sit and read Morning
Star reports. We would be on airplanes
and he'd say, "Look at this portfolio of
any portfolio manager. They show the top
30 holdings." He'd say, "Is it original
portfolio or not?" And he started to get
me to learn who did original investing.
And then he would ask me why. And I say,
"Well, I've seen that stock in every
portfolio." Exactly. I've never seen
this name before. Exactly. You know, and
we would go through and he would
literally teach me literally about how
to be a contrarian investor. When you
think there's only one way, things often
move in the other direction. Our
contrarian point of view is not contrary
for contrary sake. Our contrarian point
of view is really based upon the fact
that if you want to make money, you have
to do things that other people don't do.
If you buy the same stocks as everyone
else, as the old saying goes, you get
the same results, right? I feel like
people look at a stock go up and then
they say, "I want to buy it." But then
they don't realize the stock has already
gone up. Everyone describes the stock
market as a roller coaster. They're
like, "It's a roller coaster." It's so
fascinating as a concept because in a
real life roller coaster ride, when
you're at the top of the roller coaster,
you feel the most anxiety. And when
you're at the bottom of the roller
coaster, you feel better. Except for in
the stock market, right? When you're at
the top of the stock market, you feel
great. And when you're at the bottom of
the stock market, you feel terrible. And
we reverse that in how we think about
investing. When it's up here, it's
frothy. We get nervous. The only way to
go is down. When we're downhill, we say
to ourselves, there's a lot of upside.
And we want to make money, not lose it.
The market has gone up in this massive
way and a lot of investors and even
people who are just entering the market
for the first time, they haven't felt
that pain of losing real money in the
market. These are the moments where you
use volatility as your friend. Warren
Buffett talks a lot about that. You buy
into these weak moments and you hold for
a long period of time. You're not
trading, you're investing. To the extent
those messages get out, I think people
in this environment can make a lot of
money. It is just fascinating. Warren
Buffett, possibly the most famous
investor of all time, just announced his
retirement at the age of 94. He's known
for his pity advice. Risk comes from not
knowing what you're doing. If you aren't
willing to own a stock for 10 years,
don't even think about owning it for 10
minutes. and be fearful when others are
greedy and greedy when others are
fearful. I think you should look for the
job that you would want to hold if you
didn't need a job. Where do you see
Warren Buffett in the way you invest?
Everywhere. a foundational part of our
investment strategy is a lot of what he
writes about and says and obviously he
does it with such brilliance and he's
got probably the best track record of
any human living in terms of the length
of it and the magnitude of the returns
that he's generated over his lifetime.
He talks about investing within your
circle of competence. We know where our
areas of competency are and we look to
build on them and accumulate knowledge
to make us better in those circles of
competence as opposed to looking at
another another circle and saying we
don't know anything about it but need to
learn it. We think that's how you make a
lot of mistakes.
It feels like after 2008 in particular
that you have a kind of an American
public who look at the world of finance
and say money was only made for specific
people. Well, I don't agree with that.
So, first and foremost, I am a
capitalist. The capitalist system is the
best system in the world. As people
challenge it, I'm always saying to them,
give me a better system. That is not a
system that I would tear down. And I
think that is what makes dreams come
true in this country. 2008 was a
traumatic experience certainly at Ariel
and in the financial community. And
there was great loss in our society
during that period for those who were um
everyday people who unfortunately
terribly lost houses and and things like
that. But you saw whole institutions
wiped out and the equity that went with
that for those individuals. There were a
lot of lessons that were learned and I
think those lessons learned allowed us
to be more resilient in difficult
periods since then. I believe in what do
we learn from that so it doesn't ever
happen again.
How much do you think that the ideal of
mobility has changed in this country? Do
you believe that you can start off
working at a McDonald's and start to
save and eventually, you know, become
someone closer to looking like you? I
think we have a society that has a lot
of work to do when it comes to making
sure everyone has a shot and making sure
there is ample mobility like we've seen
um you know in decades past that allow
the American dream to still continue.
That is not something that I am cavalier
about or I think well I did fine so
everyone else will. I know how hard it
is. I know how the universe had to align
itself. I had to have so many things go
right for me. So much luck, so much
effort, but both in order for me to get
to where I am. I know that it is not an
easy thing to do. So I think we as a
society need to recognize that we have
to do a lot more to make sure that that
opportunity is is is really there for
everyone. We have mutual fund customers
who invest $50 a month. I am not in any
way um distanced from the reality of
real life in this country, family
members to the extent that people are
able to retire financially secure. They
can pass on money to their heirs. they
can have their kids go to college. And
that's our job to grow their money so
that they can have a better life or to
grow the money for the institution to be
able to do more if it's an endowment or
for a pension fund to pay its
pensioners. And those people are always
at the forefront of my mind and they are
tied to my own uh experience.
I think the stock market is really
intimidating to a lot of people and
Melody Hobson has a lot of very
straightforward advice. It's what you
would hear from Warren Buffett, too,
which is don't buy what everyone else is
buying at very high prices.
Buffett said, "You don't get rich fast,
you get rich slow." But the next
generation is desperate to build wealth.
Now,
I wanted to take you to do one of my
favorite things, which is walking the
Brooklyn Bridge. We were talking so much
about investing. All of it kind of
started here, but now people are looking
online. What do you think is different
about Jenzie? This is a generation we've
been talking about. It's kind of been
hard to build wealth in a lot of ways.
How big of a problem is that? I think
it's a pretty big problem. like the
financial nihilism that drives the
decisions that people make about not
saving for retirements or like racking
up a credit card. They're like, "Well,
none of this actually matters." And so,
it is going to influence like if they
choose to save for a house, what career
path they might choose. For this
generation, they are very disillusioned.
They're very mad. They're extremely
anxious, and they're extremely
distressful. And so, when you look at
how somebody invests based on just that
profile, they're going to be like,
"Giving the money fast. I don't I don't
care. And like who can blame them? It's
not their fault. It's just how they're
feeling. So, how do you think about what
you want to invest in? So, it really is
what I spend my money on. So, I fly
United Airlines quite a bit. And so, I
own United Airlines stock, but I also
keep it pretty diversified. So, a lot of
my money, and none of this is investment
advice, but a lot of my money is in the
S&P 500 because that's a great way to
just get exposure across the board. But,
I also own like utility ETFs, and I own
sweet green because I like their salads.
And so I just try to keep it
diversified. And I also own crypto and I
also own some gold. I own some bonds.
And so I have a pretty wide ranging
portfolio. How much money do you save
versus invest? The way I do it is I put
$50 every month into the S&P no matter
what. And I'll allocate more if I can,
but I $50 every single month is what I
do. What does financial literacy mean to
to this generation? I mean, I think it
really boils down to financial freedom.
understanding that overarching umbrella
of how the entire system works and then
being like, okay, I need to save. I need
to invest. I need to have goals. I need
to think about my job. But they need to
have the tools to understand how to do
all of that. Yeah, there's a lot of
tough news out there. Is it worth it? Is
it worth doing all this work to learn
how to invest? Yeah, definitely. I mean,
I think the day-to-day news flow can
make it seem like it's not worth it.
Like, it's just pure nihilism. It's
scary. Like, it activates our fight or
flight all of the time, but it is worth
it. Especially if you think on a
long-term horizon, which I challenge
everybody to do, it's totally worth it.
There's a famous story about a con man
who tricked people into buying the
Brooklyn Bridge with the hope of making
easy money off of tolls.
There's a difference between trading,
which is buying and selling for the
short term, and investing, which is the
long game. Just remember, if it sounds
like easy money, someone might be trying
to sell you a bridge in Brooklyn.
Have you ever looked at your retirement
accounts? Not really, cuz I'm married.
Your wife looks after most of it. My
retirement? That's really far. Oh my
gosh. My plan for retirement? That's a
great question. Should start thinking
about that, shouldn't I? Cuz I don't
have a plan. So, do you think people
should be learning investing in school
at a young age? My dad used to have me
handwrite my tax returns. Uh, so I think
it's very important. Do your parents
talk to you guys about investments? Yes,
they do. What do you know about
investing? It's important in your life.
Save money. How about you?
She likes to spend money.
Do you want to invest one day? Yes.
[Music]